README.md, before:

# HW4 Starter Code and Instructions

Please consult the [homework assignment](https://cmu-313.github.io//assignments/hw4) for additional context and instructions for this code.

## pipenv

[pipenv](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/latest) is a packaging tool for Python that solves some common problems associated with the typical workflow using pip, virtualenv, and the good old requirements.txt.

### Installation

#### Prereqs

- The version of Python you and your team will be using (version greater than 3.8)
- pip package manager is updated to latest version
- For additional resources, check out [this link](https://pipenv-fork.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html#installing-pipenv)

#### Mac OS

To install pipenv from the command line, execute the following:

```terminal
sudo -H pip install -U pipenv
```

#### Windows OS

The same instructions for Mac OS **should** work for windows, but if it doesn't, follow the instructions [here](https://www.pythontutorial.net/python-basics/install-pipenv-windows).

### Usage

#### Downloading Packages

The repository contains `Pipfile` that declares which packages are necessary to run the `model_build.ipnyb`.
To install packages declared by the Pipfile, run `pipenv install` in the command line from the root directory.

You might want to use additional packages throughout the assignment.
To do so, run `pipenv install [PACKAGE_NAME]`, as you would install python packages using pip.
This should also update `Pipfile` and add the downloaded package under `[packages]`.
Note that `Pipfile.lock` will also be updated with the specific versions of the dependencies that were installed.
Any changes to `Pipfile.lock` should also be committed to your Git repository to ensure that all of your team is using the same dependency versions.

#### Virtual Environment

Working in teams can be a hassle since different team members might be using different versions of Python.
To avoid this issue, you can create a python virtual environment, so you and your team will be working with the same version of Python and PyPi packages.
Run `pipenv shell` in your command line to activate this project's virtual environment.
If you have more than one version of Python installed on your machine, you can use pipenv's `--python` option to specify which version of Python should be used to create the virtual environment.
If you want to learn more about virtual environments, read [this article](https://docs.python-guide.org/dev/virtualenvs/#using-installed-packages).
You can also specify which version of python you and your team should use under the `[requires]` section in `Pipfile`.

## Jupyter Notebook

You should run your notebook in the virtual environment from pipenv.
To do, you should run the following command from the root of your repository:

```terminal
pipenv run jupyter notebook
```

## API Endpoints

You should also use pipenv to run your Flask API server.
To do so, execute the following commands from the `app` directory in the pip venv shell.


Set an environment variable for FLASK_APP.
For Mac and Linux:
```terminal
export FLASK_APP=app.py
```

For Windows:
```terminal
set FLASK_APP=app
```

To run:
```terminal
pipenv run flask run
```

Or if you're in the pipenv shell, run:
```terminal
flask run
```

You can alter the port number that is used by the Flask server by changing the following line in `app/app.py`:

```python
app.run(host="0.0.0.0", debug=True, port=80)
```

## Testing

To run tests, execute the following command from the `app` directory:

```terminal
pytest
```

If you're not in the Pipenv shell, then execute the following command from the `app` directory:

```terminal
pipenv run pytest
```

Commit message:

Add updated model, API, tests, README  (#5)
* My test case checks that the length of the output array is 3 and that all the elements in the array string.

* Implement test for post model 422 wrong type

* Added test for missing argument

* Check correct output type of get request

* Modified notebook to generate new model

* Implement post /model route

* Refactored post /model and check for type error

* added get model test

* Fixed bugs in api unit tests

* Attempting to fix unable to open pickle file error

* second attempt to fix get model error

* final attempt to fix model path

* Fix test for get /model and post /model api

* Fix model prediction

* Generated new model with true accuracy with split testing data

* Update model_build.ipynb

* Updated README to include information about the ML model

* Update README.md

Added features

* Update README.md

Added title

* Clean up jupyter file

Co-authored-by: Shakthi Vignesh Angou <shakthiangou@shakthismacbook.wifi.local.cmu.edu>
Co-authored-by: Kevin Wu <kevinwu2@andrew.cmu.edu>
Co-authored-by: Jason Perez <jasonper@andrew.cmu.edu>
Co-authored-by: Kaylin Li <kaylinli@kleeshp>
Co-authored-by: Antara P <63465565+antarapal235@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: ShakthiAngou <75957659+ShakthiAngou@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# Updated ML Model to Predict Graduate Admissions

Our new model makes use of the following features:

- **Fedu:** father's education where 0 = none, 1 = primary, 2 = 5th to 9th, 3 = secondary, 4 = higher
- **Medu:** mother's education where 0 = none, 1 = primary, 2 = 5th to 9th, 3 = secondary, 4 = higher
- **absences:** number of school absences (0 to 93)
- **failures:** number of past class failures
- **famsup:** family educational support (1 = yes, 0 = no)
- **internet:** internet access at home (1 = yes, 0 = no)
- **paid:** extra paid classes (Math/Portuguese) (1 = yes, 0 = no)
- **schoolsup:** extra educational support (1 = yes, 0 = no)
- **studytime:** weekly study time where 1 = <2h, 2 = 2 to 5h, 3 = 5 to 10h, 4 = >10h

The provided code for the baseline model had a reported accuracy of approximately 50% with only three features. The improved model saw an average 31% increase in accuracy with a maximum recorded score of 84%.

# HW4 Starter Code and Instructions

Please consult the [homework assignment](https://cmu-313.github.io//assignments/hw4) for additional context and instructions for this code.

## pipenv

[pipenv](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/latest) is a packaging tool for Python that solves some common problems associated with the typical workflow using pip, virtualenv, and the good old requirements.txt.

### Installation

#### Prereqs

- The version of Python you and your team will be using (version greater than 3.8)
- pip package manager is updated to latest version
- For additional resources, check out [this link](https://pipenv-fork.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html#installing-pipenv)

#### Mac OS

To install pipenv from the command line, execute the following:

```terminal
sudo -H pip install -U pipenv
```

#### Windows OS

The same instructions for Mac OS **should** work for windows, but if it doesn't, follow the instructions [here](https://www.pythontutorial.net/python-basics/install-pipenv-windows).

### Usage

#### Downloading Packages

The repository contains `Pipfile` that declares which packages are necessary to run the `model_build.ipnyb`.
To install packages declared by the Pipfile, run `pipenv install` in the command line from the root directory.

You might want to use additional packages throughout the assignment.
To do so, run `pipenv install [PACKAGE_NAME]`, as you would install python packages using pip.
This should also update `Pipfile` and add the downloaded package under `[packages]`.
Note that `Pipfile.lock` will also be updated with the specific versions of the dependencies that were installed.
Any changes to `Pipfile.lock` should also be committed to your Git repository to ensure that all of your team is using the same dependency versions.

#### Virtual Environment

Working in teams can be a hassle since different team members might be using different versions of Python.
To avoid this issue, you can create a python virtual environment, so you and your team will be working with the same version of Python and PyPi packages.
Run `pipenv shell` in your command line to activate this project's virtual environment.
If you have more than one version of Python installed on your machine, you can use pipenv's `--python` option to specify which version of Python should be used to create the virtual environment.
If you want to learn more about virtual environments, read [this article](https://docs.python-guide.org/dev/virtualenvs/#using-installed-packages).
You can also specify which version of python you and your team should use under the `[requires]` section in `Pipfile`.

## Jupyter Notebook

You should run your notebook in the virtual environment from pipenv.
To do, you should run the following command from the root of your repository:

```terminal
pipenv run jupyter notebook
```

## API Endpoints

You should also use pipenv to run your Flask API server.
To do so, execute the following commands from the `app` directory in the pip venv shell.


Set an environment variable for FLASK_APP.
For Mac and Linux:
```terminal
export FLASK_APP=app.py
```

For Windows:
```terminal
set FLASK_APP=app
```

To run:
```terminal
pipenv run flask run
```

Or if you're in the pipenv shell, run:
```terminal
flask run
```

You can alter the port number that is used by the Flask server by changing the following line in `app/app.py`:

```python
app.run(host="0.0.0.0", debug=True, port=80)
```

## Testing

To run tests, execute the following command from the `app` directory:

```terminal
pytest
```

If you're not in the Pipenv shell, then execute the following command from the `app` directory:

```terminal
pipenv run pytest
```
